---
title: "To the Class of 2021"
date: 2021-12-31T12:00:00+10:00
categories:
  - blog
tags:
  - school
  - reflection
excerpt: "A message to the graduated Class of 2021 from the former NLSC College Captain"
---

To the Class of 2021:

It is hard to believe we have finally arrived here. Graduating from 13 years of schooling and now splitting apart and launching into our new careers. Being now able to stand here at the conclusion of this marathon journey I think is something we should all feel very proud of.

I have chosen to write this open letter today as I feel I needed to express some of my own feelings about where we are at now. If you can't be bothered, don't feel like you have to read any further, but I felt it would be appropriate as your former Captain to make a few remarks about my own feelings surrounding today and the weeks, months and years ahead of us.

First off, I think now is certainly a time for some reflection. 13 years is a long time, especially as children going through momentous changes in our own knowledge and understandings of the world around us and of ourselves. I have no doubt even our Dux didn't fully grasp at how big our world is when he or she was in Prep!

We have all learned and grown together in such a crazy world - one where the thing that is most certain is its uncertainty - yet having been at this school for 13 years, I feel I can be fairly certain of the strength in the friendships and connections that we have formed together. Having all shared very similar challenges over this journey, especially the last 2 years when you combine COVID and the QCE, I can say with confidence that we have all learned what it is like to lean on those around us in both times of success and struggle.

Add into the mix the variety that exists within our own cohort and this achievement becomes even more significant. Although we have colloquially been known as the 'Motley Crew' for some time, I think it was only at graduation I fully realised what this meant after cutting the ceremonial cake. Our Valedictorian and I are two very different people (as I think you all would've observed by our greatly different responses following the cake-cutting incident), and I think these differences highlight just a sample of the diversity that exists within our cohort.

Yet here's the kicker. Our time together has ended. We are now moving into our own individual careers where our unique differences will truly shine. The great irony is that our once strong connections to each other will start to rust as we form new bonds with the people in the places we move into, be it through university, TAFE, the workforce, etc. Even still, the legend of the 'Motley Crew' lives on - the group of unlikely individuals who managed to succeed against all the odds, and I think we did it against one of the most difficult backdrops ever to occur.

The challenge now is for each of us to find a sense of meaning and purpose in our new chapters. Having finished school, it is no longer about the simple goal of finishing Year 12 with a QCE/QCIA or a nice looking ATAR. We each now are faced with the challenge of making something out of our lives that we will hopefully enjoy long into the future. I know this challenge will be more difficult for some than others as we each are at different places in finding what we enjoy doing.

But just as our cohort as created its own legacy, so too should each of our own lives. We may no longer be in the same place together at the same time, but we are each now on our own quests to find how to live our lives. It's during this quest that we each must realise that it's ultimately not about what we do during our time that matters, but why we did it.

A few months ago, as I considered running for Valedictorian myself, I heard a line from a speech by Denzel Washington that has stood out in my mind ever since. He says:

>Don't just aspire to make a living. Aspire to make a difference.

Some may shrug off the unlikely successes of our 'Motley Crew' as nothing more than coincidence, but I consider them to be the legacy of the Class of 2021. This is what will come to mind when I reflect on what these past 13 years stood for.

And now, as we each go our own way and try to find a sense of purpose in our lives, remember that our time on this earth is temporary. The best any of us can realistically do is make a difference for those around us, thus leaving behind a lasting legacy for generations to come. That's exactly what our cohort has achieved together.

Let us now go forward together, focusing on how we can benefit others over ourselves through what we do. That is ultimately what it is to **make a difference.**

I look forward to hearing about the many things that we each achieve in the future as we leave our world better than it was when we came into it.

Congratulations everyone and I wish you all the best on all that you choose to do in the future!

And finally, to bring back memories from assemblies past:

>I will now hand you over to **the rest of your lives**!